[Doc 3.3] MCP Server and MCP Connector (#11144)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/api/mcp-server-apis/index.md

nav_order: 40
redirect_from: 
  - /ml-commons-plugin/api/mcp-server-apis/
  - /ml-commons-plugin/api/mcp-server-apis/sse-message/
  - /ml-commons-plugin/api/mcp-server-apis/sse-session/
---

# MCP server APIs
**Introduced 3.0**

[Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) defines how an agent can discover and execute tools. The MCP server in OpenSearch allows agents to connect and use available [tools]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/tools/).

> The MCP server in ML Commons uses the Streamable HTTP transport protocol to communicate with the clients. For details about the transport, see the [official MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MCP server in ML Commons uses the Streamable HTTP transport protocol to communicate with the clients. For details about the transport, see the [official MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports).
```

# MCP server APIs
**Introduced 3.0**

[Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) defines how an agent can discover and execute tools. The MCP server in OpenSearch allows agents to connect and use available [tools]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/tools/).

> The MCP server in MLCommons uses the Streamable HTTP transport protocol to communicate with the clients.. For details about the transport, see the [official MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports)

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
The MCP server in ML Commons uses the Streamable HTTP transport protocol to communicate with the clients. For details about the transport, see the [official MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports)
```
